Dynamics 365

What is it?
Off the shelf intelligent business applications from Microsoft's, that connects data, processes and teams together.

Different applications (12 total)

1.Dynamics 365 Sales - sales leaders, sales operations
2.Dynamics 365 Customer Service - Customer Service Leaders, Customer Service Operations [telecommunications]
3.Dynamics 365 Field Service - Field Service Leaders, Field Service Operations
4. Dynamics 365 Human Resource - Attract, Onboard, Core HR
5. Dynamics 365 Finance & Operations - Finance and Ops Leader
6. Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management - Streamline Planning, production, stock, warehouse and transportation [Grocery]
7. Dynamics 365 Commerce
8. Dynamics 365 Project Service Automation - Operation Leaders, Project Leaders
9. Dynamics 365 Marketing - Adobe Marketing Cloud, Marketing
10. Dynamics 365 Artificial Intelligence - AI for sales, AI for customers Service, AI for market insights
11. Dynamics 365 Mixed Reality - Remote assist, layout, guides
12. Dynamics 365 Business Central - ERP for SMB


For eg. Microsoft 365 has a CRM software that allows companies to track their sales, track their leads , tracks how much money the customers can bring in, track customer activities, etc.

How Dynamics 365 is different from power platforms is that power platform allows you to create applications where as Dynamics 365 are a set of applications that are already built to solve a business leads. Dynamics 365 was launched as part of Microsoft business package.

How Dynamics 365 works well with power platform? ==> this happens in 3 ways

D365 + Power Platform

1. Dataverse
The data within most Dynamics 365 apps is actually stored in dataverse which is a database that exist within power platform env.
Dataverse works well and integrates very well with power platform
Use Power apps to create apps from data within D365
Use Power automate to create flows based on updated data in D365
Use power bi to analyze data in D365

2. Relevant connectors
Power Platform also has connectors that bridge directly to some D365 apps(Business Central, Customer Insights, Finance and Operations, SCM)
Use power automate to create flows where the trigger is "when a business event occurs"
Use power apps to cause D365 actions

3. Data sources
Within power bi, you can select dynamics business central and customer insights as "data sources", that you can then analyze and create reports/dashboards via power bi and power automate.


Video 24 - Dynamics 365 connectors[just watch the video]

Microsoft 365 [aka office 365]

What is it?
Subscription service to common business and office productivity applications, like excel, outlook, power point, etc

Subscriptions
OneDrive for business
Skype for business
word
excel
powerpoint
onenote
publisher
access
yammer
sharepoint
exchange
forms
etc


How to integrate Microsoft 365 with power platorm? ==> Through connectors 


So we can access these applicaions either though data sources or through services(actions and trigger)

Data sources
use sharepoint list as a database for your power apps application [sharepoint list connector]
create a flow that emails you when a new records is added to a sharepoint online site [outlook connector]
Create a power apps that enables users to add, edit, modify and delete records from an access database
Create a power bi dashboard from data that exist in access and in sharepoint list

Services(actons and triggers)
trigger a power automate workflow when someone submits a new form in Microsoft forms that emails the record to your manager [triggers is forms +outlook connector]
when an email with files attachment is received, put attachment into onedrive[trigger is outlook+ onedrive connector]
create a power app that lists tasks from Microsoft to do and allows you to assign task to other people


Note : Power apps are connected with other applications such as dynamic 365, Microsoft 365, teams, etc so that it can be utilized much.

