Day 3

Teams and power platform

Power Apps
1. Embed Power app(canvas or model driven) into teams as a tab or personal app

2. Create apps directly within teams, using Dataverse for teams for datasource.

Power automate
1. Create workflows that triggers based on Teams messages or adaptive cards
2. Create workflows that sends teams message or create new chats.

Power BI
1.Add power bi app directly into teams.
2. Embed interactive report in teams channels and chats

Power virtual agent
1. Deploy chatbots on teams, for your employees or team member to use.


Microsoft Azure

What is it?
Cloud computing service, providing software as a service,platform as a service, infrastructure as a service and many other resources.

Similar to dynamic 365 and Microsoft 365, Microsoft azure extends what power platform can do.


For eg. Azure has a resource called congnitive services. This enables us to run really cool AI models that can for eg. read a picture and deduce what the text from that picture is or they can for eg. do translation services so they can take a piece of text and translate it into another language, or they can take a drawing and apply computer vision to it to make that drawing into a power app element.

Some of the azure service areas follows:

1. Analysis service [Power BI]
2. API management
3. Azure functions - allows you to create third party functions that run by themselves.
4. AKS [Azure Kubernetes Services]
5.Login apps
6. Cognitive Services
7. Bot services [Power Virtual agents]



Azure/office data services
1.Microsoft graph
2. SQL azure
3. SQL data warehouse
4. Cosmos DB
5. Azure AD
6. Azure CDN
7. Azure Data factory
8. Azure Blob Storage


Azure+Power Platform connectors

Data sources

1. Use Power BI to run analytics, create reports, and create dashboards from :
1. Azure sql database
2. Azure Cosmos DB
3. Azure Analystics services DB
4. Azure Blob Storage

Create apps from
1. Azure file storage
2. Azure log analytics

Services (actions and triggers)

1. Employ cognitive services in your power apps, like computer vision, text to speech, language conversion, and more

2. Use azure bot service and power virtual agents to create bots in multiple languages and dialects

3. Use power automate and azure functions to create workflows that call third parties API, like independent software without connectors

4. Connect power automate to azure data factory and mix process workflows with data workflows







