What is Power Platform?
Microsoft power platform is a line of business intelligence, app development and app connectivity software applications. It is composed of 5 key products:
1. Power Apps
2. Power Automate
3. Power BI
4. Power Virtual Agents
5. Power Pages


Micosoft power platform is a low code platform that spans Microsoft 365, azure, dynamics 365 and standalone apps.
1. Power Apps --> App development
2. Power Automate --> Process Automation --> Data connectors , AI builder, Dataverse
3. Power BI--> Business Analytics 
4. Power Virtual Agents --> Intelligent Virtual Agents
5. Power Pages --> External Facing Websites


Power Apps
Power apps provides a rapid low code development env for building custom apps for business needs.

It has services, connectors and a scalable data services and app platform to allow simple integrations and interaction with existing data.


Power App Features:
1. Creation of web and mobile applications.
2. Easy user experience.
3. Developers can build custom apps.
4. 200+ connectors to integrate data and systems.
5. Prebuilt AI scenarios.
6. Provides private and secure submission of information.


Power Automate
Power automate lets user create automated workflows between applications and services.

It helps automate repetitive business processes such as communications, data collections and decision approvals.


Power Automate Features:
1. Creation of enterprise grade process automation.
2. Simple interface allowing every level of users to automate work tasks.
3. Hundreds of prebuilt connectors.
4. AI builders.
5. Predicts outcomes to improve performance.
 

Power BI
Power BI (Business Intelligence) is a business analytics service that delivers insights for analyzing data.

It can share insights via data visualization which make up reports and dashboards to enable fast, informed decisions.

Power BI features:
1. Scales across an organization and has built in governance and security.
2. Display data in the most user friendly way possible.
3. Detailed and attractive visualizations.
4. Access cast volumes of data from multiple sources.
5. Gather, analyze, publish, and share excel business data.
6. Perform real time stream analytics.







