1. What is Software Testing?

Set of activities intended to find bugs within software, as well as validate and verify the software meets the business requirements and needs as designed.

Bug/Defect: an error that causes an incorrect or unintended result.


2. Verification vs Validation

Verification - You verify the software is built as the design specification outlined. Ultimately, you are verifying the developers completed the development as it was envisioned. "Are you building it right?" [Functional Requirement]

Validation - You validate the software that was build solves the original business problem or fulfills the business needs.
"Are you building the right thing?" [Business Requirement - UAT]

3. Why it is important?

Defects in prd systems can:
Cost money
Frustrates users
Extend the project
And in some cases, can cause loss of lives!


Example of bug causing loss:
1. Mars Climate Orbiter
Launched in 1998 to study Mars Climate changes
Developer used English units instead of metric
Bug caused it to get too close to Mars atmosphere.
Orbits disintegrated.

Net loss: $327 million dollars


2. AT&T long distance
In 1990, 60k customers couldn't make long distance calls.
Phones use switches and LT&T has lots to allow for all the traffic.
When one switch is full, it passes the traffic to the next switch
Software update was put into production to make the failures faster
Bug had switches get overloaded, reset, and pass the traffic to the next
AT&T long distance was down for nine hours

Net loss: $60 million dollars
 
3. Prisoners released early

Software calculates the sentence based on good/bad behaviour
Bug in calculations was introduced in 2002 and not caught until 2015
More than 3k prisoners had been released early

Net loss: Unknown.
 

Validation --> 2015 Miss universe controversy

4. Goals of testing

Reduce as many as we can as no system can be 100% bug free.

1. Verify the software is  built as designed
a. Show presence of defects
b. Reduce probability of bugs remaining in software at time of launch.
c. Not to make it bug free (Not feasible without large investment.

2. Validate the software is usable and meets business needs
a. Confirm intended users can accurately use the software.
b. Ensure the end result solves the original business problem.

5. When does testing happen?

1. Waterfall --> One phase at a time and no going back

Requirements --> Design--> Development --> Testing-->Deployment-->Maintenance.

2. Iterative --> Repeating waterfall many times.
Analysis--> Design -->Implement-->Iterate and then Deploy

6. Software testing Phases:

1. There are different kind such as:
a. Unit Testing
b. Integration Testing
c. System Testing
d. User acceptance testing
e. Regression testing


V model help us visualize this:
Business requirement                                                User Acceptance Testing
         Functional requirement                              System testing
                    Technical requirement        Integration Testing
                              Development + Unit testing


a. Unit testing:
First step by testing
Completed by developers
test as each component is completed 
Business analyst --> Rarely engaged. If engaged, it is to write test cases and review test results.

b. Integration System:
Pull component together and test as larger unit
Find problems in how components work together
Common place for project failure
Business analyst role --> usually engaged if no QA team. Write test case and review test results 

c. System Testing:
Last chance for the project team to verify the software
Validate software meets business requirements 
Includes many different type of tests

BA role--> Always engaged. Write, execute, and analyze test case results.


d. User Acceptance Testing:
Final phase of testing
User utilize real life scenarios to verify software meets their needs.
Users should be the main tester, not the BA.

BA role--> Almost always engaged.  Create scenarios, analyze results, managed defects, and ensure defect resolution.


e. Regression Testing:
Performed after initial testing is completed.
Retest function of the software that have not been changed.
Ensure changes didn't break previously working functionality.
Can be extremely tedious and boring.


7. Quality Plan

Quality plan addresses the quality requirements, standards, and quality assurance mechanisms for a project.

Project manager creates it.

The quality plan includes:
1. Testing and Quality Assurance (who, what, how)
2. Defect management (where to document, details to include , test the change)
3. Training (who needs it in order to test)

8. Test Workbook

Created by BA or Quality team
Document that holds the test scenarios, test cases, and testing results.
Used by anyone involved in testing:
BA
User/Business
Quality Assurance (QA) team
Guides the testing of the software to ensure coverage across as many requirements as feasible.









