1. Test cases

Set of steps which are performed to verify the expected output.
Gives detailed info. about any precondition, what to test, how to test, and the expected result.
Written so they can be executed by anyone.
Takes a significant amount of time to create test cases for all requirements.
May trace back to the specific requirement.

2. 4 steps to creating a test cases

1. Understand the requirement you are testing.
2. Write step by step instructions on how to verify it works.
3. Add in expected outcomes to each step.
4. Define pre-requisites/ pre conditions.

3. Determine requirement to test
Using req. document, identify the req. you are testing.
Think through how you would test to verify it works.

4. Step by Step 

Eg. Can reset your password:

1. Launch an internet browser (chrome or IE are supported)
2. Browse to www.xyx.com
3. In the top right corner  click "login"
4.  On the login screen, below the password entry, click "Forgot my password"
5. Type in your email address into the field and click submit.
6. In the email, you receive(within 5 minutes), click the link
7. Enter your new password in both fields and click done
8. Click "login" and utilize your email and newly created password.


Expected Outcome

Add in what you expect to have happen

1. Launch an internet browser --> Browser opens, allowing entry of a url address.

2. Browse to www.xyx.com --> Company xyx home page loads

3. In the top right corner click "login" --> Login page loads with email and password fields.


Determine pre condition

1. What knowledge does the tester need to have?
2. What access does the tester need to have?
3. Did steps need to be done prior to this?



Entry for Test book:

1. Requirement ID
2. Test case ID
3. Title --> Business requirement from FRD
4. Step
5. Action/Description
6. Expected Result
7. Pass/Fail
8.Notes/Remarks


2. Test scenarios

A single general statement that gives a high level test procedure.
Could include multiple test cases
Allows the testers to interpret the action needed
Help adjust for unexpected user test paths and input


Eg. of test scenarios

1. Verify clicking forgot my password generates an email that you can use to reset your password.

2. Verify that once you convert a lead, the system automatically creates an account and pulls over the relevant details from the lead.

3. Verify you can place an order containing once or more products.

Test scenarios workbook

1. Test case id
2. Test scenario Id
3. Title
4. Scenario
5. Pass/Fail
6. Notes/Remarks


3. Concept of traceability

Tracks requirement through testing and go live
Ensures all req. have been thoroughly tested
Can be enforced strictly or loosely.
Extremely time consuming if strict adherence is required. (Not much needed for BA unless strictly mentioned)

4. Defect Management

Defect management is the act of:
1. documenting the issue or bug
2. Assigning the defect to a resource to fix
3. tracking the progress of the charge
4. Validating the change corrected the issue or bug

5. Defect Management : Excel

Utilize modified test workbook or create new tracking spreadsheet

Advantages:
accessible in nearly every business
Familiar to most users
easy to create

Disadvantages
Only one person can edit at a time.
No audit or notification on changes
tedious to constantly open and update
no reporting

6. Defect Management: SharePoint

Create a SharePoint List

Advantages:
Accessible to many business
Easy to replicate the template
Can have notifications generated
Many people can edit at a time

Disadvantages
No reporting
No traceability to requirements.















